Step 1:

 Sign in to the AWS Management Console using your credentials. Once you login successfully, 
 you will be displayed the home page of AWS Management Console.

 For this step, having an AWS account is mandatory. 
 If you don’t have an AWS account till now, please create one. 

Step 2:

 Click on “Services” present in top-left corner of the Console Home.

 You will be displayed a menu of services. 
 From the menu of services, find and click “Storage” menu.
 You will be displayed a list of storage services provided by AWS, on the right hand side of menu of services.
 Finally, from the list of storage services, click on “S3”.

Step 3:

 To create a bucket, search for a yellowish “Create Bucket” 
 bucket in the right hand side of Console Home page and click on it. 
 You will be displayed a wizard for creating bucket,which comprises of number of sections, 
 where each section is intended to collect several information from us for creating a S3 bucket.

Step 4:

 Fill up the required information in all the sections of the wizard. 
 Each section has been provided with the information explaining what it is and it’s purpose. 
 Go through those information in case of any confusion and fill up all the sections carefully.

 Before moving any further, lets have a clear picture on 
 what are we supposed to do in each section of the wizard.

 In “General Configuration” section, enter the bucket name and select an AWS region where 
 the bucket would be created and stored.
 
 In “Object Ownership” section, you can either disable or enable ACLs and 
 control ownership of the objects uploaded to the bucket. For that, 
 you have to choose a setting from two provided settings i.e. choose either “ACLs disabled” 
 setting or choose “ACLs enabled” setting. If you have any doubt on what each setting means, 
 please go through the description provided under each setting.

 In “Block Public Access settings for this bucket” section, choose the Block Public Access settings that you want
 to apply to the bucket. By default, all the four available setting are enabled and AWS recommends that 
 you keep all those setting enables unless turning off one or more of them is required.

 In “Bucket Versioning” section, you can either enable or disable versioning for the bucket.
 By default, versioning is disabled. Enable it only if you require to keep multiple versions of
 an object in the same bucket.

 In “Tags” section, you can add tags to your bucket for various purposes such as tracking storage costs,
 grouping resources and so on. This section is optional.
 In “Default encryption” section, you can either enable or disable server-side encryption for the objects
 to be stored in the bucket. By default, it is disabled.

 In “Advanced Setting” section, you can either enable or disable object lock property for the objects
 to be stored in the bucket. By default, it is disabled. Please read the information provided in this section 
 and enable it if required.

 
How to upload object(s) to Amazon S3 bucket

Step 1
 In the home page of Amazon S3, under Buckets section present in the middle of 
 the page, you will be displayed a list of Amazon S3 buckets. 
 You have to find and click on the bucket, inside which you want to upload object(s).
 After you click on the bucket, you will be displayed a page for the bucket you clicked. 

Step 2
 Click on “Upload” button present in the right hand side of the screen. 
 You will be displayed a page for uploading objects / files in the bucket.

Step 3
 Click on the “Add files” button present under “Files and folders” section. 
 You will be displayed a file explorer from where you can select file(s) and upload. 
 Alternatively, you can drag and drop file(s) directly into the page for uploading.

 After selecting and confirming the files to be uploaded via. File explorer or via. Drag and drop, 
 the selected files would be displayed under “Files and Folders” section. 
 Finally, after clicking “Upload” button present at the bottom of the page, 
 the selected files would be uploaded to the particular Amazon S3 bucket and you will be then
 displayed a success message, summary of success message and the list of uploaded files under 
 “Files and Folders” section.

       Congratulations! Now you have successfully uploaded object(s) to Amazon S3 bucket.





